hi this is fresh talker in this video
I'm going to describe how an NFL team
the no wins could actually make the
playoffs for now this remains a
theoretical possibility the team with
the worst record to evade the playoffs
is the Seattle Seahawks at 7 and 9 but
who knows what will happen this year or
in the future in this video we're going
to do a mathematical calculation we're
going to look at the lowest number of
wins you can have and still make the
playoffs we're going to show the answer
is 0 the other topic is we're going to
see the most number of losses a team
could have and still make the playoffs
and that answer is 13 losses let's look
at how the NFL structures its game and
schedules there are two two conferences
the AFC and the NFC and within each
conference are four divisions and each
of these divisions represents four teams
and each division is guaranteed a
playoff spot each team plays 16 games in
a year four of these games are against
another division within the same
conference there are another four games
that are scheduled to a division in
another conference there are also two
games that are played within the same
conference but in different divisions
and finally the most important part is
there are six games played within the
same division so each of the four teams
within the division play each other
twice now let's calculate the least
number of wins a team in a division
could have and still make the playoffs
so we're going to try and make all four
of the teams in the division really bad
so we're going to say those teams lose
all four of their games in the same
conference playing the other division
they can also all lose all four games
against the other conference and they
could also lose two games against the
other divisional rivals in the same
conference
where it gets tricky is where they play
the same division since we don't want
anyone to have wins we could say all of
those games end up in ties this would
leave a team with the record of zero ten
and six and all four teams could
actually have this meaning they would
have no wins and one of them would make
the playoffs what if we want to know the
most number of losses well once again we
can say that each of the four teams is
going to lose against the divisions they
play against within the same conference
and the other conference they could also
lose the remaining divisional games in
the same conference now in terms of the
same division the most losses you could
have is three and there's a mathematical
reason for this the reason is that every
loss for one team will be a win for
another because of the way the
head-to-head matchups are set up so
mathematically this means the best team
within the division won't have more than
three losses and this is by the
pigeonhole principle so the worst team
and a division the best team could have
a record of three and thirteen all four
of them could have that and still make
the playoffs it's really weird that a
zero win team or a three win team could
actually make the playoffs but that's
how the NFL playoff system is currently
formatted it's no wonder people are
calling for changes in the system please
subscribe to my channel you can support
me on patreon catch me on my blog mind
your decisions on Twitter at pressure
Locker and you can get my books listed
on my website